# Pymaceuticals Inc. #
- The goal of the Pymaceuticals Mice Analysis is to access the effectiveness of Capomulin against the other anti-cancer treatments / "Drug Reigmens" amoung 258 mice for a skin cancer called Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) and comparing how these differrent treatments stack up against Capomulin in migating tumor sizes and development over a 45 days time span.
---

## Analysis Conclusions
1) The first conclusion that can be drawn from the analysis is that Capomulin and Ramicane are the two best drug treatments for reducing the size of tumors in regards to treating SSC over a 45 day time span. Based off the box and whiskers plot which shows the relationship between four drug treatments - ("Capomulin", "Ramicane", "Infubinol", and "Ceftamin") and the "Final Tumor Volume (mm3)" for each of those four drug treatments. The box and whiskers plot, shows that Capomulin and Ramicane had very similar results when it come down to the overall effectiveness of mitigating/reducing tumor volumes for the mice that were treated with those drugs after their final treatment. The median "Final Tumor Volume (mm3)" for Capomuin was about 38-(mm3) and the highest and lowest observed "Final Tumor Volume (mm3)" was about 48-(mm3) and 23-(mm3) respectively. The median "Final Tumor Volume (mm3)" for Ramicane was about 36.5-(mm3) and the highest and lowest observed "Final Tumor Volume (mm3)" was about 45-(mm3) and 22-(mm3) respectively. Looking more indepth at the summary statistics section and the dataframe called "drug_regimen_summary_stats", the data shows that the "Tumor Volume Variance" for Ramicane is 23.486704 and the "Tumor Volume Variance" for Capomulin is 24.947764 which is once again slighty worse than Ramicane. The other two treatments shown in the box and whiskers plot (Infubinol and Ceftamin) both performed extremely worse then Capomulin or Ramicane with the median "Final Tumor Volume (mm3) being about 65-(mm3) and 59-(mm3) respectively. Infubinol did have some outliers that had almost the same performance of Ramicane but since these are outliers, Infubinol is too volatile to conclude that it is better to use over Capomulin or Ramicane. The data shows that the effectiveness of Capomulin and Ramicane are very similar at reducing the tumor size of mice with SCC over a 45 day time span but Ramicane does have the edge and performed slightly better than Capomulin even though the data is almost the same.

2) The second conclusion that can be drawn from the analysis is that for mice that were only treated with Capomulin - they tend to have larger average tumor volumes in correlation to their respective weights. (As the mices weight gets heavier, the larger the average tumor size). As show by the final scatter plot in the analysis that shows the linear regression line, we can see that "Weight (g)" of mice and their "Average Tumor Volume (mm3) have a positive correlation of .84 which is considered a strong positive correlation. Based on the conclusion above about how Campulin and Ramicane have very similar results when it comes to treating mice with SSC, it might be true that Ramicane is the better drug treatment of choice compared to Capomulin, due to Capomulin not being as effective for heavier mice. A more indepth analysis would have to be done to see the correlation of "Weight (g)" of mice and their "Average Tumor Volume (mm3) for Ramicane only treated mice but based on both of these conclusion and Ramicane already having the slight edge in performance. Ramicane seems to be the best drug treatment for reducing tumor sizes for mice that have SCC. 
---

## How Does The Code Work?
1) Importing dependencies for necessary analysis using Pandas, Matplotlib, and scipy.stats
2) Merging "mouse_metadata.csv" and "Study_results.csv" datasets into a new dataframe called "mouse_study_data_complete" using a Left Join on "Mouse ID"
3) Checking to find the number of unique mice in the new dataframe and then using ".duplicated" function to find the exact "Mouse ID" that is the duplicate in the dataframe based on the unique combination of "Mouse ID" and "Timepoint" (g898).
4) Creating a new dataframe called "filtered_mice_dupe" visually see the duplicated "Mouse ID" data for easier comprehension
5) Creating a new dataframe called "cleaned_mouse_study_data" that drops the duplicate "Mouse ID" => Then using ".nunique" to find the new number of mice in the clean dataframe
6) Next is the summary statistics section where the "Mean Tumor Volume", "Median Tumor Volume", "Tumor Volume Variance", "Tumor Volume Std. Dev.", "Tumor Volume Std. Err." are calculated and put into a single dataframe called "drug_regimen_summary_stats" for easier analysis of the summary statistics for each "Drug Regimen"/ treatment.
7) 
